---
slug: a-terrible-weekend-on-the-lake
title: A Terrible Weekend On The Lake
published-at: 2018-06-15
description: A man drowned near my family's lake house and I was there to experience the event and the recovery effort.
draft: true
---
A quick preface/disclaimer/warning: I put this post together from a few of my
journal entries. They were written in near real-time while I was experiencing
the death of a man who I didn't know. He died near my family's lake house last
weekend, where I've been spending this summer.

### Saturday, 9 June 2018
Saturday started out like any other day. I woke up around 9:30A.M., took a
shower, ate breakfast, and read in my hammock on the dock. After eating a late
lunch I went back down to the dock to shave my head. When I got there I noticed
a massive storm sitting over the lake to the north and west. It began thundering
so I went back up to the house. My brother Price and I started planning his
bachelor weekend.

The sky darkened with clouds as the storm made its way south. The wind picked up
and was blowing off the lake, towards our house. There were whitecaps on the lake
and our windows rattled with a few gusts of wind. Waves were breaking onto the dock.
Lightning was flashing on the far side of the lake. It wasn't raining.

Price and I looked out the windows and noticed that two boats - a pontoon boat
and a speedboat - were meeting a pair of kayakers out on the lake, maybe 100
yards off our dock. The pontoon boat floated between us and the kayaks, blocking
our view of them. This was all far enough away that we couldn't see what was
going on, so Price got our binoculars. I could see people on the boats, and the
two kayaks were vertical and mostly underwater. The boats were floating north
and neither seemed to have their engine turned on. But nobody was trying to get
the kayaks. Or the paddles. There were life jackets in the water. There wasn't
anybody else on the lake. Something seemed off.

Price walked down to our dock when the boats floated out of eyesight (some of
our trees block the view to the north, so we couldn't see anything after the
boats floated past our neighbor's dock.) Melinda, our neighbor to the south,
walked over to meet him. After a minute or two I heard sirens. As I walked down
to the dock, Price was running up to the road to meet the firetruck.

When I got to the dock Melinda looked very concerned. She told me that she
thought someone went under. That took me a second to process, but there wasn't
any time to think on it because the two boats were driving towards our dock.

The speedboat arrived first, on the north side of our dock. On board was a
woman, her brother, and three children. The man helped to keep the boat from
slamming into the dock, as the wind and waves had not calmed down. I helped the
three kids and the woman off the boat. I took down my hammock so it wasn't in
the way.

The pontoon boat arrived next with two young couples and a woman on board. Price
helped tie it up to the front of the dock. The woman got off first, crying and
in shock. Another woman got off and looked at me with the widest eyes, a look
that I won't soon forget.

The first woman was met by an EMT who walked her to an ambulance. She and her
husband had fallen off their kayaks and into the water. Her husband drowned.

At this point the firefighters had arrived on our dock. One of them got in the
speedboat to go back out to where the man drowned. An ambulance was parked in
Melinda's driveway. Police officers arrived in plain clothes because they had
all been enjoying the weekend and were not on duty.

Slowly more and more emergency personnel showed up. The Sheriff. His lieutenant
and deputies. More firefighters. More officers. They took our statements. Price
and I put folding chairs out for the two couples who were in the pontoon boat.

The two kayakers had been out on the lake for the day. They were on the far side of
the lake when the storm began rolling in. They decided to make their way to the
other side of the lake - where our house is, and near where they had put the
kayaks in - which is almost a mile across. Neither had a life jacket on, and
neither knew how to swim well. They were panicking and paddling hard.

They flagged down two boats when they were about 3/4s of the way across. A wave
knocked him out of his kayak. He grabbed her kayak, flipping her out. The people
in the pontoon boat threw all of their life jackets towards him. He wouldn't put
one on. He was panicking. They got her onto the boat. When they went back to get
him he was gone. This all happened in the moments before Price and I looked
through binoculars to see the kayaks vertical in the water.

The emergency personnel cleared everyone off our dock. Sheriff Hancock asked
Price and I if they could use our dock and our yard and we said of course. The
dive team showed up and used the pontoon boat, which was a rental. Boats from
the Department of Natural Resources were gridding the search area with sonar.
Off-duty police officers who were on their personal fishing boats joined in the
search.

I walked up to the house to calm down and drink some water. I started writing.
"They're currently still searching. It's 7:09 PM. He went under at probably
4:00P.M."

A light rain began.

I met Mercedes. She was in the speedboat. I helped her and the three kids off
when they got to our dock.

I met Zach, he went kayaking with him three weeks ago.

I met her cousin. She was thankful we let the family sit on our porch, which was
out of eyesight of the [local media][walb] who had arrived.

Police tape was strung across our yard and into Melinda's yard, on the side of
our house facing the road. The Sheriff's Command Center RV was parked in our
driveway. The dive team's pickup truck was parked in our yard by the dock.

The young couples that were on the pontoon boat were brought back to the marina
where they rented it from to get their car. We've since only spoken to them via
text message.

The dive team packed up after sunset, around 9P.M. They’ll be back at 6:30A.M.
Price and I walked down to our dock, which was quiet except for the boats still
gridding nearby. Two police officers were there. They told us at least one will
be there all night. The rental pontoon boat was tied up to the end of our dock.

I didn't sleep well that night. I was mostly up thinking through too many what-if
scenarios.

### Sunday, 10 June 2018

Price and I went for a walk, maybe around 10A.M. When we were out we heard and
then saw a helicopter flying up and down the shoreline of the lake and then back
to the search area off our dock. It was the Georgia State Patrol, who were
called in to assist in the search. We were out for about an hour. On our way
back in we could see the enormity of the recovery effort. In addition to the
Sheriff's Command Center, there were at least five other vehicles in our front
yard and another five down by our dock. A fire truck was parked on the street.
Across the street were at least ten vehicles. A few media vehicles were parked
along the street. A tent was setup near the Command Center with food and drinks.

I met Jason, his brother. He arrived late at night and slept in his car in
our driveway.

I hadn't fully processed the situation, so instead of sitting inside I walked
over to Melinda's to talk to her and her husband, Eddy. I watched the
helicopter flying directly overhead. I watched the boats on the water, the
divers in the water, the people all over our dock and our yard. I met a county
commissioner and some folks from the Sheriff's office who I talked with for a
while.

A cadaver dog arrived and went out on a boat. I’m not sure how that works but I
believe it's trained to bark if it smells a human. Since there were other
boaters out on the lake the dog's senses were thrown off and it was barking
quite a bit. The dog was biting at the water that went past the boat, which is
something our family dog used to do.

I spent four or five hours on Eddy and Melinda's dock. The Sheriff came over to
chat at one point. It was after 9P.M. when they called off the search for the
day. Price and I went back up to the house, and to take our minds off things we
watched a Tig Notaro standup on Netflix. I barely made it through without
falling asleep. I slept like a rock that night.

### Monday, 11 June 2018

On Monday morning around 8A.M. Price and I were sitting on the porch swing. The
emergency personnel were just getting started for the day. The helicopter was
circling the lake when the pilot spotted him floating. We watched the boats -
two pontoon boats for the divers, a few DNR boats - all converge very quickly.
Sheriff Hancock walked up towards us and, giving a thumbs-up, told us they'd
found him. He walked Jason to a neighbor's dock where the wife and other family
were waiting.

The helicopter landed in a nearby yard. The boats slowly made their way back
towards our dock. Holding on to the front of one of the pontoon boats were two
divers in the water. They were holding onto an orange bag. The coroner showed up
and backed his truck to the steps that lead down to our dock. The divers carried
him out of the water and onto our dock, then up to the coroner.

The divers packed and cleaned our dock. The coroner drove away. The Sheriff
walked up and thanked us for the use of our yard and dock.

In no more than an hour the pickup trucks and the SUVs were gone. The
Sheriff's Command Center RV was gone. The police tape was taken down. The family
left. The boats drove away.

Price and I walked down to our dock for the first time since Saturday. We moved
the fenders back to the side of the dock. I put my hammock back up and laid in
it for a while.

The man was a body builder. He was around 6'5" 250lbs, all muscle. It took less
than a minute for him to go under. There was nothing Price and I, or anyone
else, could have done. The people on the two boats that met them did everything
they could have.

If you're on the water, please have a life jacket available - one that is fitted
to your body size. Learn to swim. Learn to tread water. Learn to float.
Understand how quickly this could happen to even the strongest person.

Later in the week Price and I were in Florida to celebrate our niece's sixth
birthday. We went out on a friend's boat with six kids and three other adults.
It was our first time on the water since this whole experience. The kids all had
life jackets on, and there were enough on the boat for the adults. I found
myself double checking, even though I'd been out on this boat with these people
before and it probably hadn't crossed my mind. Having grown up around boats and
on the water, these things are second-nature to me. We had a lovely time.

The water will always be a part of my life. It makes me happy and calm. I feel
most relaxed and peaceful when I'm swimming or sailing or on a beach. Last
weekend I was reminded of the power of water. I'll never take it for granted
again.

[walb]: http://www.walb.com/story/38391166/missing-kayakers-body-found
