slug: one-week-off-grid
title: One Week Off-Grid
published-at: 2018-06-12
description: I turned off my computer and phone for a week to reboot my technology habits.
---
After I decided to take a year off I thought that a good way to begin was with a
technology reboot.

For the last 8 years I have worked on a computer for 8+ hours a day, and I would
also use it leisurly during off-work hours. My eyesight suffered; I had to get
glasses. My physical well-being suffered; I wasn't exercising. My ability to
focus suffered; I would reach for my phone like it was second-nature.

My cellphone became something I'd reach for first thing in the morning, in the
middle of the night if I couldn't sleep, when I was putting off doing what I
needed to do.

I needed a reboot.

While my year off is a reboot of my lifestyle, my week off-grid is a reboot
specifically of my use of technology. I make a living off of technology, but the
always-available nature of the internet allowed me to get into unhealthy usage
habits. Backing away from my phone, computer, and TV will hopefully allow me to
rid myself of some habits like checking email multiple times a day, reading
websites that haven't changed in the give minutes since I last ready them,
taking my phone out of my pocket to fill time that would be better spent
interacting with the people around me or reading a book or writing or reflecting
on the moment.

I set a few rules for myself. I would turn off my cellphone and laptop, and not
the turn TV on.  Instead I would read, write, walk, and spend time outside. I
made a list of books that would be nice to read, and set a goal of writing twice
a day; once to journal at the end of the day and once to write something that
could turn into a blog post on my website. I also wanted to walk at least once a
day. Since I was at my family's cabin in Georgia it was the perfect place to
string up my hammock on the dock for a reading/thinking/napping spot, and use
the counter on the dcock as my writing desk. The background noise of birds
chirping, water flowing, the occasional boat going by, and the occasional rain
storm on the metal roof set a relaxing modd and gave me a great environment to
reboot my tech habits.  The dock even has wifi so it's the perfect place to
responsibly use technology once I'm done with the hiatus.

I set a few rules for myself for after the week off-grid so that I'll better use
my time at and away from my computer and smartphone.

It's important to learn how to slow down, from the pace of 'normal' life.
